Hello and welcome back to the course of machine learning in today's tutorial we will find out how we
can take our nonlinearly separable data set map it to our higher dimension and get a linearly separable
data set.
Invoke the support vector machine algorithm build a decision boundary for a dataset and then project
all of that back into our original dimensions.
So quite a lot to cover.
Let's get started.
First off we're going to look at a simplified example we're going to look at a one dimensional dataset.
So normally we visualize everything in the PowerPoint with two dimensions to make it look pretty and
so that we can kind of understand how it would work in multiple dimensions.
But right now that will be a bit too complex for us to start with.
So we are going to start with a single dimension So here we've got the X-1 dimension we've got some
points here so we get nine data points.
And as we can see our nonlinearity separable So in a in this dimensional in a single dimension dimensional
space a linear separator would not be a line or would be a dot.
Right.
So in a two dimensional space or a linear linear separator is a line in a three dimensional space as
a hyper plane but in a one dimensional space it's a single dot so can we simply separate the green from
the red with a single dot here.
No we cannot we if we put it here then these will be separate from that of who put it here will be separate
from that.
So this is an nonlinearity separable dataset.
Now how can we apply the method of increasing the dimensionality of this space to make it a leaner separable
data set in a higher dimension and that's what we're going to look at.
And it might seem impossible right.
So the first some I learn about this for me it was like wow how can you take a nonlinearity several
dissidents somehow magically increase the dimensionality and you get a linearly separable dataset that
you know sounded like absurd.
But it is actually possible and that's what we're going to see right now.
So we are going to create this mapping function on the fly.
So let's say that at this point or here is around 5.
So this is zero here and then somewhere here we've got five.
It doesn't really matter.
It can be any number but just for argument's sake let's say that this point over here is five.
Right.
And then it keeps going.
So our first step to build the mapping function it can be multiple mapping functions that you can build.
I'm just going to show you one that came to my mind.
So the first step would be to go F equals X minus 5 so as to subtract 5 from our dataset.
And that is going to what does that are going to do that is going to move everything to the left so
basically now this is what the result looks like.
So if you take 5 you subtract 5 from X you would get you know like these ones will go into negative.
These ones will stay positive and then the next step would be to square all of that so f is now equals
2 x minus 5 square.
So how will that all look like.
Well basically you'll have this squared function going through your chart and then all of these will
be projected onto the function.
There we go.
So that's what it looks like.
F equals X minus 5 squared.
And now what we want to do is we just want to see that it is indeed linearly separable.
So there we go.
There's our linear separator.
So in a two dimensional space I remember a linear separator is a straight line.
And as you can see this dataset became linearly separable in this dimension I know it's surprising and
even a bit shocking but indeed it is the case so you can see that we were able to take this line and
separate all of the red elements although data set from the green elements and that's it.
And then what we do next from here is we would project everything back onto our original space and we
would know how to functionally separate the green from the red.
And that is what happens when you map something to a higher dimension.
So now knowing this example and seeing that it works in reality we can proceed to a higher dimensional
you know to start with a two dimensional space so let's have a look.
So there's our two dimensional space and basically you apply the same principle So here you can apply.
You cannot invoke the support of a machine algorithm because it is not a non linearly Super Bowl.
Data set in this space.
But then you would apply some sort of mapping function like right now we won't go into detail what exactly
mapping function it would be.
And again there could be multiple different options and so on.
But basically based on the previous example we now know that it's possible like we've seen empirical
evidence that it is possible to do the same thing applies to two dimensional space moving into three
dimensional space you'd map it into three dimensional space and then somehow it would become a linearly
separable data set in this space and here we've got a new dimension which is Zed and in a three dimensional
space the linear separator is no longer a line.
It's a hyperplane.
And so this hyperplane separates the two parts of our dataset in the way we want.
So the support vector machine algorithm has helped us build this hyperplane and then basically So we've
got this result then we just projected back into our two dimensional space and we've got this circle
that encompasses our classes or surprise or classes and there we go we've got the non linear separator.
So as you can see we can still even though we get to a bit of a more complex problem where we cannot
directly apply the support vector machine algorithm as we used to.
We can still go into a higher dimension and then apply the support X machine algorithm and like we won't
go into detail if it's possible all the time and if this cases when it's not possible and so on when
you do there.
But the point is that there is a solution that you can explore the higher dimensions that this is not
a dead end you can just do that.
But there's a problem the problem with this algorithm and the problem is that mapping to a higher dimensional
space can be highly compute intensive so it might require a lot of computation a lot of processing power
and you know the larger your dataset the more of a problem this can cause and therefore this approach
isn't the best because you can imagine like you have a dataset and then mapping it to a higher dimension
performing all the calculations there and then coming back to your lower dimension that can even for
a computer and on just like in our minds ask as humans but just like for a computer that can cause a
lot of delays it can cause a lot of like processing backlog and issues.
In that sense and we don't want that to happen and therefore we're going to explore something else we're
going explore a different approach which is called In mathematics the kernel trick and that approach
is going to help us perform very similar gets very similar results.
But without having to go to a higher dimensional space and we're going to talk about that in the next
tutorial is going to be exciting and I can't wait to see there.
Until then happy analyzing